[Music]
Tarzan Mowgli you know them all too well
on the big screen swinging from vines
leaping over the trees running through
the jungle having a good time and even
talking with their four-legged friends
but what about the real stories of
children raised by animals are they just
as adventurous and romantic as the movie
show the short answer is no not even
close in 1991 a villager in Uganda
discovered a child who seemed very odd
in fact it was even difficult to tell
that it was a boy she'd found because
the child had long hair all over his
body
a clue that his body had adapted to
living outside for years his knees were
white and callous this boy had been
walking on all fours for a long time
and his fingernails were long and curled
he'd probably never even seen a pair of
clippers in his life there were plenty
of clues but how could this simple
villager know that she'd stumbled upon
one of the rarest and most bizarre
phenomena feral children a feral child
or what some refer to as a wild child is
a boy or girl who lived without any
human contact for some time in their
early formative years it's believed that
these kids can survive on their own
because they get taken in and raised by
animals usually mammals like wolves wild
dogs and primates and all the clues
point to that theory they're more
animal-like and have either limited or
no knowledge of human language or
behavior they often walk on all fours
like their adoptive animal family and
they sometimes even look more like them
there have been some confirmed cases
over the years including that of this
Uganda boy his name would be John
boo Nia when he was eventually able to
speak experts came to know of his story
apparently he had run away from an
unstable home when he was just a toddler
this is often a repeating pattern in
these cases after a few days alone in
the jungle
the poor hungry boy was approached by a
group of vervet monkeys granted they
were hesitant at first seeing this
strange hairless creature sitting there
but they soon saw no threat and the
helpless thing and offered him some
sweet potatoes and nuts
he was then adopted by the monkeys and
they take care of him for the next three
years imagine by the time he was found
says abouna had spent at least half
possibly more of his life living among
monkeys in the jungle once he'd fully
earned their trust after a couple of
weeks the animals really started to see
the human boy as one of their own they
taught him how to survive by climbing
trees and of course how to find food he
certainly was loved by the primates in
fact when the rescuers tried to take the
boy from the monkeys they needed to
throw sticks and stones just to scare
the troop away the child also tried to
stay with what he now clearly and
understandably saw as his family but
eventually he was rescued and brought
back into human society but it would be
a long road of rehabilitation Milly
Sabaa the woman who first saw cebu Nia
brought him to the nearest village to be
fed some hot food this was probably too
drastic of a change because he felt sick
right afterwards remember the child was
used to eating only what the wild can
offer and he never really did get
accustomed to a hot meal even for years
to come
he always preferred raw fruits and
vegetables but in the end tearing the
boy away from his jungle home likely
ended up saving his life and that's
because not long after they found him
they discovered that he had some
dangerous parasites in his gut the very
first time humans tried to communicate
with him the boy only responded through
screaming and biting which scared most
of them away but there were those who
wouldn't give up on him he was soon
taken in by Paul and Molly wasps WA who
ran a local orphanage at first the
couple had some difficulty teaching cebu
nia how
to be human since he didn't know how to
speak or behave he even had problems
learning how to walk upright however
Paul acting as a dedicated father figure
always took John with him wherever he
went so that the child could learn the
basics of human behavior another woman
who took care of him was his preschool
teacher day Zeena Longo he stayed in her
class for almost 10 years and refused to
go to other teachers they had an
incredible bond and nough Longo would
also act as a motherly figure for the
boy four years after his rescue the now
preteen said his first words aunt Daisy
when scientists started studying this
case even further they found that
despite his limited English Sasebo Nia
seemed to be fluent when communicating
with the monkeys that had adopted him
not only had he learned their ways
he had also picked up their language and
even after his rescue he still seemed to
have some sort of connection to these
primates he'd move in a certain way and
the troop would react they acted like he
wasn't different from them at all
but rather one of them this only serves
as more evidence that his story is true
he really had been taken in accepted and
raised by monkeys in every sense tons of
media groups took an interest in this
story and the evidence kept piling up
reporters visiting him notice that he's
still a little odd when it comes to
certain things they couldn't help but
notice that he uses his wrists to pick
things up and of course he walks a
little awkward and unbalanced since he's
had to learn to stand and move around
upright a lot later than most people
learn the skill but other than the
little subtleties of normal human
behavior and movement says abou Nia did
just fine
getting readjusted to his roots sure
like a lot of feral children who miss
getting an education in those critical
early years John did have some delays in
his mental development but even with
that he was able to achieve so much
despite it all
his caretakers couldn't help but notice
that he's an incredible physical shape
and quite a good runner with the help of
trainers he competed in the Special
Olympics not once but twice he ran a
marathon in 1999 and became the captain
of Uganda's Special Olympic soccer team
in 2003 ever since then he's traveled
the world for international competitions
and has been to the US UK Ireland and
the Netherlands to name a few aside from
being good at sports
he's also gifted with a beautiful
singing voice Hillary duck a dentist
from England overheard him singing once
she visited Uganda to provide dental
treatment to the locals as soon as she
heard him she was blown away by his
voice in that moment she was able to
convince John to join the pearl of
Africa children's choir their team had a
three-week tour all over the United
Kingdom duck once stated in an interview
that singing really helped John overcome
his shyness
despite his traumatic childhood years of
living completely isolated from society
with all of its safety and conveniences
and the long difficult road to
rehabilitation sis abou Nia is still a
kind man with a good heart when asked
how he felt about all the attention he
gets he modestly replied that he knows
people are just interested in him
because his story is unusual and even
though there are those who look at him
strangely call him mean names or perhaps
judge him too harshly he says he doesn't
think anything bad about them and
finally he also mentioned that he's very
thankful to the monkeys that found and
raised him so many years prior in a 2013
interview says abou Nia said that he's
living peacefully in his house and owns
a couple of cows he told the interviewer
that he wanted to settle down have kids
and start a family of his own by that
time he was already a 30 year old man
who had chosen to stay in his home town
of Bombo Uganda he also keeps in touch
with the orphanage that took him in
saved his life and
brought him back to humanity from a boy
who just wanted to escape a bad
situation and ended up living for years
in the jungle among a family of monkeys
and now a man that's traveled the globe
thanks to his talents John says Abu
Nia's story is truly one of the most
fascinating and convincing cases of
feral children but it's also a testament
that they can be saved and go on to live
normal lives sure it might not be
anything like what you see in the movies
but that doesn't mean they can't have a
happy ending - what about you do you
believe that animals can raise a human
child let me know your thoughts down in
the comments if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
off in the jungle just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life